And everyone.
So we will begin with the world's most famous problem, which is the knapsack problem.
And in upcoming few lectures, we will dive deeper into the knapsack problem.
But I won't try to, you know, memory optimize it or do some tips and tricks on this, which I have
done on this absurd problem.
So feel free to do that on any of the next problems.
Will do.
But what I'll do is I'll try to relate all the dynamics of all the knapsack problems to some dynamic
programming stage eight and.
Here.
I've already written so many different variations of the next problem will be solving all of them.
Firstly, we will see the zero one knapsack problem and then we'll move on to zero and knapsack problem,
which is also called unbounded knapsack problem.
Today's colourful knapsack problem.
It is my favourite problem from all the knapsack problems.
And the fourth one is that.
Generally we have an absolute problem.
We have some stewards, but later what we do is we change the state of the problem.
Basically, we always define it adding programming statewide.
So we'll change.
The state will take some other variables and try to solve the knapsack problem because that's what constraints
will force us to do.
So we'll will work according to some different constraints.
We'll see.
So.
This is the starting part.
And let's begin with this zero one knapsack problem.
Eight oh.
Let me quickly open one note.
Well.
So this is the knapsack problem and we know the famous knapsack problem.
What does this problem say?
And guys, believe me or not, if you have understood this absurd sum problem, then this problem becomes
one of the easiest problems you'll do in general.
And this is a very basic problem, but it's a very important problem.
So let's see, you're packing for a vacation on a seaside and you're going to carry only one bag with
a knapsack capacity.
So the constraints I mentioned here, it is less.
Then it goes to 2002.
We have a bag and it has a capacity.
Basically, it's a knapsack.
And you also have in what is in here the number of items that you might want to take with you to the
seaside.
Unfortunately, you can not fit all of them in the knapsack, so you will have to choose eight.
So basically we have lots of items, but we just have a bag.
But each item you are given its size and its value.
You want to maximize the total value of all the items you're going to bring.
What is the maximum grade?
So basically, it's a.
A problem in which we have to determine that we have a particular bag.
We have to push items in the bag.
But the only problem is we cannot push all the items.
And the second thing is every item has a size associated with it.
We have to pick up some subset of the items that's that the total sum of their sizes is less than equal
to us.
That means they fit into the knapsack.
And right beside what we have to do is we have to maximize the total value of all the items.
So let's see the input on the first line you're given.
Essendon and lines follow two integers describing one of your items.
First number is a sizeable item.
In the next is the value of the item.
You should output a single integer on one line like the total maximum value from the best choice of
your items for your trip.
So this is the input.
Let me just copy this.
Okay.
Every carpet is input for five.
And it is 18243025.
Three.
Basically what it says is that the value of the knapsack.
I'm calling your time.
Okay.
It says this.
So let me take your desk.
Only size of the knapsack is for.
And it's five.
And now we have five items.
What is item?
What we are given?
The first number is the size of the item and the next to the value of the item.
So this is the size of the item.
Basically, if I'm picking this item, then I will need this much size in my knapsack.
Right?
And if I'm picking this item, that means size of two should be available in the knapsack, and this
item will give me a profit of photocopies.
So instead of, you know, framing it this way that you're going to do a vacation or this this frame
it that way that you add a little you had a tip full and you just have one bag.
And then there are some sizes of the items you're going to pick and they have their own some values.
And so on the basis of that, what items you will pick so that you have you get the maximum value and
all of those items fit in your knapsack and you run away.
That seems better for the situation.
Oh, yeah.
Let's see.
Let's try to break right here first.
In the knapsack problem eight.
So here we can see is that this is this size and this is the weight.
837 Yeah.
Um.
The first.
Yeah.
The first is the size, and the second is value.
That means one is the size and it is a value.
Liz, can we see that?
Maybe we can pick up the element which has the most value by size of issue.
That means what is its value per unit size.
If it is more, then we want to pick a trade.
Because if I know of gold or if I pick a ten gauge of diamond but then gives you a diamond will have
more value, right?
Because their value by size is far better than gold.
Right.
So greedily.
If you want to try it greedily, then we can also do.
You can try this like on the basis of value by size.
So it will be eight.
This is true.
This is zero.
This is 2.5 and this is 1.5.
On the basis of value besides that issue, we can.
Try to pick the elements.
Let's figure the elements.
But what?
What has the maximum value by size it.
You can only let me write it also.
Currently my knapsack is a capacity of four eight.
What is the maximum value besides element in this whole list?
We have this by aid rate and its size is one.
That means I can pick up this element and right now my cab capacity of my knapsack is four.
So I'm picking this element.
Let's say I pick this element, the capacity of my knapsack history.
And what is the.
Value that I'm picking it it right now.
I picked up this element.
As you can see, the size of the element is only one eight.
And also this is a01 knapsack.
Right?
That means that I can pick up the element or I will not pick up the element zero or one binding knapsack.
Basically, you cannot be an element multiple number of times in this.
That will be a zero and knapsack problem where you can pick up any element, multiple number of frames.
Well.
This is a01682 in zero one knapsack.
We can either pick it or not pick it then picking it up.
Now my was the size of an EPS I get city.
So what is the second most value giving item which is 2.58?
Value.
The size of this item is better than others.
Now, now, if I pick up this item, it has a capacity of it has a size of two and the value of the
item is five and the capacity of my knapsack history.
That means I can still pick up this item.
If I pick up this item, the capacity of my knapsack remains one and the value that I will get is a
fight five.
So what is the total number?
The capacity of an exec is one, but basically the capacity of my knapsack is one to tell me one thing.
What is the third most valuable size item?
It is two, but I cannot good because its size is two and the remaining capacity in my knapsack is only
one.
Similarly, I will not be able to pick it up and I will not be able to pick this up.
So here you can see.
I have used space three of my knapsack.
And what is the total maximum value?
What I'm getting at it is 13 and the answer.
The answer is also 38.
So here you can see that the greedy bugs that face body gives gifts.
Let's discuss this so that people try at least once by giving it a great shot and then realize that,
okay, they'll get wrong answers.
Right?
Because they'll realize that.
Okay, greedy will not always work.
Let's find it.
Excuse me.
Is greedy.
Will not work.
But just think about it in this way.
What if I pick an element?
Of course.
Value by size of that element is, let's say, maximum, let's say the highest.
But it is not fulfilling my whole capacity.
What example?
Let's take this example.
Let's see.
Forward is the capacity of the knapsack and I have items of three and its value is 30.
So value by sizes ten and we can say to 15 and to 18 what is the value sizes and when fighting the value
besides there is nine eight.
Okay, here you can see if I tried greedy.
That means initially I have four and the maximum value by size of ten and which has a size of three.
That means I can pick it up.
If I pick it up.
The knapsack is a value one remaining become 30.
Right now.
I can not pick this up.
Not pick this up.
Okay.
So here you will realize one thing that.
You can see that there is this one space left in the knapsack.
But.
If there were spaces left, I picked up the element with the maximum value besides.
But now that one space will remain empty.
But that that could have been filled if I picked these two up.
So if I pick these two up, and what would I have figured?
Let's have big fuss to go to 15 and then I will pick Newcomer.
Then I will pick Duke on March 18.
Eight and this will mean zero, basically 18 bills, 15 will be 33.
So tell me, is 30 where there are 33?
Of course, 33.
Right.
So here you can easily see that the grid will not work.
And of course, guys, this is a very small example.
The list of the items can go to 2008.
So this was a particular tree and it goes to tree, this one book.
Well, so I hope you understand.
Why would greedy not work?
Because what we are trying to do is we are trying to select item on the basis of.
PBS is well overseas, but.
But I will take some particular size.
What about the other size?
Maybe that other size could have been utilized by some other different combination, which could have
given me in the end, a greater value.
I basically plus this is greater than this.
So the grids won't always work.
Okay.
So now let's move on to the epi approach.
You'll go in the next lecture.
We'll start with the drip, drip approach of the knapsack problem.